No writer who knows the great writers who did not receive the prize can accept it other than with humility.
There is no need to list these writers.
Everyone here may make his own list according to his knowledge and his conscience.
It would be impossible for me to ask the ambassador of my country to read a speech in which a writer said all of the things which are in his heart.
Things may not be immediately discernible in what a man writes, and in this sometimes he is fortunate, but eventually they are quite clear, and by these and the degree of alchemy that he possesses, he will endure or be forgotten.
Writing at its best is a lonely life.
Organizations for writers palliate the writer's loneliness, but I doubt if they improve his writing.
He grows in public stature as he sheds his loneliness, and often his work deteriorates.
For he does his work alone, and if he is a good enough writer, he must face eternity, or the lack of it, each day.
For a true writer, each book should be a new beginning where he tries again for something that is beyond attainment.
He should always try for something that has never been done,
or that others have tried and failed.
Then sometimes, with good luck, he will succeed.
How simple the writing of literature would be if it were only necessary to write in another way what has been well written.
It is because we have had such great writers in the past that a writer is driven far out past where he can go, out to where no one can help him.
I have spoken too long for a writer.
A writer should write what he has to say and not speak it.
Again, I thank you.
Now sleeps he with that old whore death who yesterday denied her thrice.
Repeat after me.
Now sleeps he with that old whore death
who yesterday denied her thrice.
Pause.
Wait for them to close up.
Continue.
Did you deny her?
Yes.
Thrice?
Repeat after me.
Do you take this old whore death for thy lawful wedded wife?
I do.
KIA 6OFF, 61EM, 13th September, 2400, 14th September, 2400.
Translate.
Killed in action.
Six officers, 61 enlisted men, from midnight 13th September to midnight 14th September.
Repeat after me 67 times.
I do.
67 times.
Continue.
Discontinued.
In the next war we shall bury the dead in cellophane.
The host
shall come packaged in every k-ration.
The host shall come packaged in every k-ration.
Every man shall be provided with a small but perfect Archbishop Spelman, which shall be self-inflatable, courtesy of air reduction, open, closed, previous, open, closed.
You don't need to repeat this.
There is not any ceremony anymore.
Everyone is gone, and you say this out loud to yourself.
You were alone at the time, and the time now is always.
Always was a word you used in promises.
It is valueless.
All officers...
Warrant officers and enlisted men will be provided with a copy of their own true loves that they will never see again, and all these copies will be returnable through the proper channels.
My own true love is Mary Welsh.
Then, of course, she will be returnable.
But I, on this day, will not accept the signature of Archbishop Spellman
nor of you, nor of you, nor of you.
You may all go now, all of you.
Go as quietly as possible.
Go as far as possible.
You may even take possible with you if you can find him, and you may hang him or dispose of him in any matter that you see fit.
Today, no one uses slang because clarity is of the utmost importance.
Fucking alone is retained, but it is used only as an adjective.
Sweating out is retained.
It means that which one must suffer without any possibility of changing the result or the outcome.
Those of us who know walk very slowly, and we look at one another with infinite love and compassion.
This comes only after 100 days, and it's one of the final symptoms.
There has been irritation, anger, fear, doubt, accusations, denials, misinterpretations, mistakes,
cowardice, inability, and lack of talent for this work.
All this has been and will be again to be counterbalanced by firmness, steadiness, courage, quick understanding, and the ability both to maneuver and to fight.
But now
For a moment, there's only love and compassion.
Know how to endure and only love and compassion.
Repeat it.
Only love and compassion.
For the FBs, too.
Battle fatigues, officers, men, midnight, 13th set.
We don't give any numbers.
Midnight, 14th set.
No.
Then it is not compassion.
Not for the battle fatigues too.
And yes, it is love and compassion.
How can you say that here?
How can you say the other?
Not that we ask for more.
Not that we wish ever any.
Not that we wish any all.
Not that we want any greater.
But when they walked away from that undiscovered country
from whose born no traveler returns who hasn't been there, they walked away from this we cannot state.
And in them died this inner knowing that grows, fresher and lovelier than any rose, manured by death and watered only with unshed tears, until this day it flowers into this love and this compassion.
Not for them, no, I am sorry.
Then it is not complete, no, nor will it be ever.
There is no contrition.
No bloody fucking contrition.
Only love and compassion.
Reach out your hand to love's dark sister Hape, and walk with her across that hill we slowly walked, and see if love is waiting at the top.
who is waiting there instead?
Did I tell you my heart is a target of opportunity?
Love, lovely sister, lovingly unloving, unworryingly succeeding, procuring unprocuringly, never wholly wrong or more than half right, holding unholdingly to hold where love
easily without a dress.
Love lightly leaves without a trace, and her dark sister fills in all the forms.
All, all the forms so neatly filled, the writing clear and good, where love's is often quite illegible, scrawled lightly in a hurry as she smiled, giving unimportance to the page.
Do you think there upon the hill we'll find her there?
No.
She's long gone.
She never stands to fight.
Knowing too well the idiocy of battle, love's always gone, leaving us only the deserted sacrament, as one finds dinner on the table in the house of a new-taken village.
So that we were it now, traces of it are worn on our chins,
like remnants of the yoke of the rare and much-desired egg, our scooped-up, newly-eaten sacrament, bringing it with our newly-issued pictures of our true loves up toward the high ground beyond the town, toward the easy, dirt-mouthed smile we had denied so many days, the plus 108.
Now all move slowly, plodding up that hill,
Making feet slowly go, for they know better than to take you.
Feet are wise and feet are wary.
Feet of John and feet of Harry.
Feet know better, feet won't go.
Make feet move on slowly now.
Make feet follow where no plow leads you ahead, for things are sown toward the place where you'll be dead.
Return her now through the prescribed channels.
Returner.
This will aid you.
Song to aid you to returner.
What they will do to others, they will do to you.
If you never suffer, God will see you through.
Onward, Christian soldiers marching to a whore with the cross of Mary Welsh going on before.
Throw your love away.
You must do it slowly now.
Slowly now and pray.
Pray to all of nothing.
Pray to all of nil.
Throw away your own true love, walking up a hill.
Repeat it now again.
Now sleeps he with that old Lord Death, who yesterday denied her thrice.
If you know, if you conceive, if you too, if, if, if, not the poem that was given you framed for Christmas in Oak Park, Illinois, written by Rudyard Kipling, but the other if, older than the if of Hamlet, the old, long, ugly if that we have faced in all the nights and all the forests of our hearts,
always coming out into a clearing, always sighting finally the smoke of the campfire, now on this wooded hill again, if, ifingly to proceed, if we know ifs, my true love, while we expend that which is not expendable, while we destroy that which is indestructible, with nothing more than harassing fire, nothing more than that,
All my heart is a target of opportunity.
All of us have been interdicted.
This is not the way it was.
I have not been there.
No one was there.
No one saw it.
Your guess is as good as mine.
Make a guess now while it is easy.
Get your guess in early.
Try and get your guess in for tonight, especially for tonight.
And there are only 89 days more until Christmas.
Put in Christmas.
All of us will die today.
Hail to Father Christmas.
Old and young together say, Hail to Father Christmas.
Bright the colored flax bits shine.
Hail to Father Christmas.
Bright today our love divine.
D plus one oh one oh nine.
Hail to Father Christmas.
Christmas minus ninety-nine.
Come, let's put it on the line.
Hail to Father Christmas.
No longer Christmas, and from this hill, bare top, its flanks covered with Christmas trees, many further hills are seen.
So, Mary, now I love you straight and true and send you this to let you know that we had a rather sticky day today in the forest.
Casualties were fairly heavy and a certain amount of battle fatigue, many more than there should be, but there are many contributing factors.
I'm getting sort of mixed up on a lot of things again.
but much clearer on others.
It's very hard to write about this stuff.
It is different from the boat.
In the boat, we were always waiting for it.
Here it is the happening all the time, and who it happens to.
I do not think about me at all anymore, bragging again.
I think about you, and that brings me in.
I write you awfully dull letters, darling, because I get tired and sort of emptied out.
And all I have to tell you that I can write is that I must have.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honor to be with you tonight and to discuss my new book.
This is one of the things that I love to do most, and it gives me great pleasure that I can share it with all of you.
The book came to me in a sort of a haze.
Harry's Bar in Venice.
Harry's Bar is a small place, but it is in effect a microcosm of all of that great and beautiful city which has been so well described by those writers Ruskin, Sinclair Lewis, Byron, and others.
The hero, if he can be called a hero of this book, is a young colonel, 18 years old.
He was made a colonel, no one knows quite how, and stationed in Trieste for his own sins.
He is a fanatic at shooting at all things.
including objects floating down the Grand Canal.
And he has come to Venice to practice his, shall we say, avocation.
In Venice, in Harry's Bar, which has become almost a sacred place to those of us who know it and who have enjoyed both the credit and the hospitality of Cipriani,
An Italian, or rather, should we say, a Venetian countess, aged 86.
In the corner of the room is a princess of Greece named Aspasia.
The young colonel is mad about the princess of Greece, but still he has his countess and his obligations.
The action of the book, ladies and gentlemen, only takes place during a period of 48 days, during which the colonel, who is continuously in Harry's bar, known to the local residents or indigentes,
as Cipriani is continuously drunk due to his own efforts and his credit with Signor, speaking Italian, Cipriani.
For 40 of these 48 days, the colonel is unable to find his countess.
She has taken refuge in the Basilica.
naturally she's given full facilities there and enjoys herself very much looking out of the upper windows and studying the action of the pigeons during this time of indecision for the young colonel who is on indefinite leave
by the request of his superior officers, he makes the acquaintance of a beautiful Venetian maiden, aged no one knows what.
Some say 16, some say 17, others, who are treacherous, say 18.
She, through her powers of seductiveness,
induces him to visit the island of Tornicello.
The colonel is accompanied by his faithful black priest who is his spiritual advisor and can almost be regarded as his spiritual manager.
Together they make a pilgrimage to this island
A very ancient part of the lagoon which surrounds Venice.
A town which I shall describe later after consulting my Baedeker.
It is love at first sight between the colonel and Aftera.
There is nothing to be done.
It is a hopeless love, but much can come of it.
And the Colonel takes advantage of this situation in a manner which might be criticized in certain circles.
we will attempt to condone due to the presence of his faithful black priest, who at this moment has passed out.
Aftera, or Aftera, as the name is pronounced by the local inhabitants, is indomitable.
Nothing like her has been seen since Attila the Hun
sat in the sacred chair of Tornicello.
The colonel, who is an extremely devout Catholic, having only been expelled from the church at the age of 16, loves Aphtara as he has never loved anyone
in all of his existence.
Aftara loves him as she loves the front page of Europeo.
What greater comparison can we make?
God himself is absent for a time, probably on his own business, but he returns to Tornicello
to bring happiness to these star-crossed lovers.
Aftara and the Colonel Mary.
But, ladies and gentlemen, there is tragedy in all of this.
There is a tragedy that one can hardly say without having his voice break.
a cardiac condition acquired during her youth.
The colonel cannot stand to see her die, and so he himself swims off into the sunset, headed, as far as we know, toward Georgia, a fishing port.
well down the coast, but the colonel can swim, and we hope that he can make it.
This, in a quick resume, is the story of my new book, and I hope that everyone will buy it, paying $3, and the 20% of each of these $3 will go to me.
to pay Gallareta and other people first, and then to go to the Fondación Aftera, which is to commemorate that great soul who has brought us such happiness.
I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your patience.
This is Ernest Hemingway.
The fifth column was written in the fall and early winter of 1937.
There were three major offensive projects for the Army of the Center that year.
One of them was Brunetti, but had started brilliantly and ended in a very bloody and undecisive battle.
And we were waiting for the first of the other two.
They never came.
But while we waited, I wrote the play.
Each day we were shelled by the guns beyond Leganes and behind the folds of Garabitas Hill.
And while I was writing the play, the Hotel Florida, where we lived and worked, was struck by more than 30 high-explosive shells.
So if it is not a good play, perhaps that is what is the matter with it.
If it is a good play, perhaps those 30-some shells helped write it.
When you went to the front, at its closest it was 1,500 yards from the hotel, the play was always slipped inside the inner fold of a rolled-up mattress.
When you came back and found the room and the play intact, you were always pleased.
It was finished and copied and sent out of the country just before the taking of Paraguay.
The title refers to the Spanish statement in the fall of 1936 that they had four columns advancing on Madrid and a fifth column of sympathizers inside the city to attack the defenders of the city from the rear.
If many of the fifth column are now dead,
must be realized that they were killed in a warfare where they were as dangerous and as determined as any of those who died in the other four columns.
The four columns advancing on Madrid shot their prisoners.
When members of the fifth column were captured inside the city in the early days of the war, they were also shot.
Later,
They were to be tried and given prison or labor camp sentences or sentenced to execution depending upon the crimes they had committed against the Republic.
But in the early days they were shot.
They deserved to be under the rules of war and they expected to be.
Some fanatical defenders of the Spanish Republic and fanatics do not make good friends for a cause
will criticize the play because it admits that fifth column members were shot.
They will also say and have said that it does not present the nobility and dignity of the cause of the Spanish people.
It does not attempt to.
It will take many plays and novels to do that, and the best ones will be written after the war is over.
This is only a play about counter-espionage in Madrid.
It has the defects of having been written in wartime, and if it has a moral, it is that people who work for certain organizations have very little time for home life.
There is a girl in it named Dorothy, but her name might also have been Nostalgia.
Perhaps it would be best now for you to see it
and for me to stop talking about it.
But if being written under fire makes for defects, it may also give a certain vitality.
You who see it will have a better perspective on this than I have.
About the stories, there is not much to say.
The first four are the last ones I have written.
The others follow in the order in which they were originally published.
The first one I wrote was up in Michigan, written in Paris in 1921.
The last was Old Man at the Bridge, cabled from Barcelona in April of 1938.
Beside the fifth column, I wrote The Killers, Today is Friday, Ten Indians, Part of the Sun Also Rises, and the first third of To Have and Have Not in Madrid.
It was always a good place for working.
So was Paris, and so were Key West Florida in the cool months, the ranch near Cook City, Montana, Kansas City, Chicago, Toronto, and Havana, Cuba.
Some other places were not so good, but maybe we were not so good when we were in them.
There was a long white beach with coconut palms behind it.
The reef lay across the entrance of the harbor and the heavy east wind made the sea break on it so that the entrance was easy to see once you had opened it up.
There was no one on the beach and the sand was so white that it hurt your eyes to look at it.
The man on the flying bridge studied the shore.
There were no shack
where the shacks should have been, and there were no boats anchored in the lagoon that he could see.
You've been in here before, he said to his mate.
Yes.
Weren't the shacks over there?
They were over there, and it shows a village on a chart.
They sure as hell aren't there now, the man said.
Can you make out any boats up in the mangroves?
There's nothing that I can see.
I'm going to take her in and anchor, the man said.
I know this cut.
It's about eight times as deep as it looks.
He looked down into the green water and saw the size of the shadow of his ship on the bottom.
There's good holding ground east from where the village used to be, his mate said.
I know.
Break out the starboard anchor and stand by.
I'm going to lay off there.
With this wind blowing day and night, there will be no insects.
No, sir.
They anchored in the boat.
She was not big enough to be called a ship except in the mind of the man who was her master.